What is UX design?
Well, I think it’s important to start by saying there’s no commonly accepted definition.

User experience design is a concept that has many dimensions, and it includes a bunch of different disciplines—such as interaction design, information architecture, visual design, usability, and human-computer interaction.

But let’s try to get a clearer picture of what that really means.

The definition of UX design
According to this study from the Oxford Journal Interacting With Computers: 

The goal of UX design in business is to “improve customer satisfaction and loyalty through the utility, ease of use, and pleasure provided in the interaction with a product.”
In other words, UX design is the process of designing (digital or physical) products that are useful, easy to use, and delightful to interact with. It’s about enhancing the experience that people have while interacting with your product, and making sure they find value in what you’re providing.

But unfortunately, that isn’t a comprehensive explanation of UX design either. So to help you get a better understanding of what it really is, I reached out to 15 smart and talented user experience professionals and asked them:

“What is UX design?”

Said differently: “How would you describe UX design to someone who was learning about it for the first time?”

Here’s what they had to say:

1. UX design is the process used to determine what the experience will be like when a user interacts with your product.
“If UX is the experience that a user has while interacting with your product, then UX Design is, by definition, the process by which we determine what that experience will be.

UX Design always happens. Whether it’s intentional or not, somebody makes the decisions about how the human and the product will interact. Good UX Design happens when we make these decisions in a way that understands and fulfills the needs of both our users and our business.”

2. The creative and analytical process of determining what a website, device, or piece of software is going to be “If we look at an interactive thing like a website or a device or a piece of software, designing the user experience for that thing is the creative and analytical process of determining what it’s going to be—what it’s going to do for people, how they’ll use it, and what it looks/sounds/feels/smells/tastes like.”

3. You can’t design experiences, but you can design for them“As Liz Sanders set me straight on over a decade ago, there is no such thing as UX Design. An experience is a personal moment felt by people; something we don’t own as Designers. However, we can design for it.

It’s a subtle but important distinction. That simple word “for” gives Designers needed humility in their craft, and opens up the space for a more collaborative relationship with people (by the way, the term “user” is a really narrow and somewhat offensive label of how we describe humans!).

Because at the end of the day, the experience of the people we design for is what determines the success of the products, services and relationships that we create.”

For more information on UX design or User Experience Design visit http://www.techved.com/uae/  and 
https://www.usertesting.com/blog/2015/09/16/what-is-ux-design-15-user-experience-experts-weigh-in/
